In the last video,
you heard about the
step of assessing
a project for technical
feasibility and for value.
Let's take a deeper
look at how you can
carry out this diligence step to
figure out if a project
really is feasible
and also how valuable
it really is.
Let's start with feasibility.
Is this project idea
technically feasible?
Before you've started on the
Machine Learning Project,
how do you know if this
thing can even be built?
One way to get a quick
sense of feasibility is to
use an external benchmark
such as the research,
literature or other
forms of publications,
or if different company
or even a competitor
has managed to
build a certain type of
online search system before,
or recommendation system
or, inventory management.
But if there's some
external benchmark
that might help give you
a sense that this project
may be technically feasible,
because someone else has managed
to do something similar.
Either to complement this type of
external benchmark or in
the absence of this other
external benchmark,
here are some other ways
to assess feasibility.
I'm going to build a two by
two matrix that looks
at different cases,
depending on whether your
problem has
unstructured data like
speech images or
structured data like
transaction records.
On the other axis,
I'm going to put new
versus existing.
Whereby new I mean,
you're trying to
build a system to
do a task for the first time,
such as if you've
never done demand
forecasting before and you're
thinking of building one,
whereas existing refers to
if you already have
some existing system,
maybe a machine learning
one, maybe not,
that is carrying out this
task and you're thinking
of scoping out an improvement
to an existing system.
New means you are delivering
a brand new capability
and the existing
means you're scoping
out the project
to improve on an
existing capability.
In the upper left hand quadrant,
to see if a project is
technically feasible,
I find Human Level Performance,
HLP to be very
useful and give you
an initial sense of whether
a project is doable.
When evaluating HLP, I
would give a human to
same data as would be fed to
a learning algorithm
and just ask,
can a human given the same data,
perform the tasks such as can the
human given a picture of
a scratch smartphone,
perform the task of detecting
scratches reliably?
If a human can do it,
then that significantly
increases the hope
they can also get the
learning algorithm to do it.
For existing projects, I would
use HLP as a reference as well.
Where if you have
a visual [inaudible]
inspection system
and you're hoping
to improve it to
a certain level of performance.
If humans can achieve the
level you're hoping to get to,
then that might give you
more hope that it is
technically feasible.
Whereas if you're
hoping to increase
performance well beyond
human level performance,
then that suggests the project
might be harder or
may not be possible.
In addition to HLP,
I often also use the history of
the project as a predictor
for future progress.
I will say more
about both HLP and
history of project in
the next few slides,
but the previous rate of
progress on the project can be
a reasonable predictor for
the future rate of
progress on a project.
You see more of this
later in this video.
Moving over to the right column.
If you're working on
a brand new project
with structure data,
the question I would ask is,
are predictive
features available?
Do you have reason to think
that the data you have,
the inputs X are
strongly predictive
or sufficiently
predictive of the
target outputs Y?
In this box on the lower right,
for structured data problem,
if you're trying to improve
an existing system,
one thing that will
help a lot is if you
can identify new
predictive features.
Are there features that you
aren't yet using but
you can identify that
could really help predict
Y and also by looking at?
The history, of the project.
On this slide, you heard
about three concepts.
Human-level performance,
the question
of whether predictive
features are available,
and also the history
of a project.
Let's take a deeper look
at these three concepts.
Let's start with using HLP
on unstructured data images.
I use HLP to benchmark
what might be durable for
unstructured data
because people are
very good on
unstructured data tasks.
The key criteria for assessing
project feasibility is,
can a human given
the exact same data as would be
given to a learning
algorithm, perform the task?
Let's look at an example.
Let's say you're building
a self-driving car,
and you want an
algorithm to classify
whether a traffic
light is currently
red, yellow, or green.
I will take pictures from
your self-driving car and
ask a person to look
at an image like this,
and see if the person
looking only at the image
can tell which lamp is
illuminated and in this example,
it's pretty clear it's green.
But if you find that you also
have pictures like these,
then I can't tell
which lamp is illuminated
in this example.
This is why it's important for
this HLP benchmark
to make sure that
human is given only the same data
as your learning algorithm.
It turns out maybe
a human sitting in
the car and seeing the traffic
light with their own eye,
could have told
you which lamp was
illuminated in this
example on the right,
but that's because
the human eye has
superior contrast to
most digital cameras.
But the useful test
is not whether
the human eye can recognize
which lamp is illuminated,
the useful test is
if the person was
sitting back in the
office and they can only
see the image from the camera,
can they still do the task?
That gives you a better
read on feasibility.
Specifically, it helps you make
a better guess at whether
a learning algorithm,
which will only have
access to this image,
can also accurately detect
which lamp in a traffic
light is illuminated.
Making sure that a human sees
only the same data as
a learning algorithm
will see is really important.
I've seen a lot of
projects where for
a long time a team was
working on a computer
vision system, say,
and they thought they could
do it because a human
physically inspecting
the cell phone
or something could
detect the defect.
But it took a long
time to realize that
even a human looking
only at the image,
couldn't figure out
what was going on.
If you can realize that earlier,
then you can figure much
earlier that with the
current camera set up,
it just wasn't visible.
The more efficient thing to
do would have been to invest
early on in a better camera
or better lighting
setup or something,
rather than keep working on
a machine learning algorithm
on the problem that I
think just wasn't durable,
with the imaging setup
available at a time.
Next, for structured
data problems,
one of the key criteria
to assess for technical
feasibility is,
do we have input features
X that seem to be
predictive whenever we're
trying to predict Y.
Let's look at a few examples.
In a Ecom example,
if you have features
that show what are
the past purchases of
a user and you like to
predict future purchases.
That seems possible to
me because most people's
previous purchases are
predictive of future purchases.
If you have past purchase data,
you do have features
that seem predictive of
future purchases and this
project might be worth a try.
Or if you work with
a physical store,
given data on whether if
you want to predict
shopping mall foot traffic.
How many people will
go to the mall?
While we know that,
when it rains a lot,
fewer people leave their house,
so weather is predictive of
foot traffic in
shopping malls and so,
I will say you do have
predictive features.
Let's look at some more examples.
Given DNA of an individual,
let's try to predict if
this individual will
have heart disease.
This one, I don't know,
the mapping from your DNA
to whether or not you
get heart disease is
a very noisy mapping.
In biology, this is referred
to the genotype and phenotype,
but the mapping from
genotype to phenotype or
your genetics to your
health condition
is a very noisy mapping.
I would have mixed feelings
about this project,
because it turns out
your genetic sequence
is only slightly,
maybe mildly predictive of
whether you get heart disease.
I'm going to put a
question mark there.
Given social media chatter,
can you predict demand
for a clothing style?
This is another iffy one.
I think you may be
able to predict
demand for clothing
style right now,
but given social media chatter,
can you predict what
will be the hot,
fashionable trend
six months from now?
That actually seems
very difficult.
One of the ways I've seen
AI projects go poorly,
is if there's an idea
like let's use social
media to figure out what
people are chatting
about in fashion
and then we'll
manufacture the clothing
and sell it in six months.
Sometimes the data just
is not that predictive,
and you end up with a
learning algorithm that
does barely better
than random guessing.
That's why looking at whether you
have features that you
believe are predictive,
is an important step of
diligence for assessing
technical feasibility
of a project.
One last example that
may be even clearer,
which is given a history of
a particular stock
market shares price.
Let's try to predict the
future price of that stock.
All of the evidence I've seen is
that this is not
doable unless you
get some other clever set of
features looking at a single
shares historical price,
to predict the future price of
that stock is
exceedingly difficult.
I would say if those are
the only futures you have,
those features are
not predictive of
the future price of that stock
based on the evidence I've seen.
Even leaving aside
the question of how
much predicting share
prices are trading,
if there's any social value,
I have some questions
about that sometimes.
I think this project is
also just not
technically feasible.
Finally, on this diagram,
one last criteria I
mentioned a couple of
times is the history
of a project.
Let's take a look at that.
When I've worked on
a machine learning
application for many months,
I found that the rates of
previous improvements can be
maybe a surprisingly
good predictor for
the rate of future improvement.
Here's a simple
model you can use.
Let's see a speech
recognition as the example,
and let's say that this is
human level performance.
I'm going to use human
level performance
as our estimate for
B0 or the irreducible level
of error that we hope to get to.
Let's say that when
you started a project,
you'll see in the first
quarter or Q1 of some year,
the system had 10
percent error rate.
Over time, in
subsequent quarters,
the error went down like,
Q2, Q3, Q4 and so on.
It turns out that it's not
a terrible model to
estimate this curve.
If you want to estimate how well
the team could do in the future,
one simple model I've used,
is to estimate the rate of
progress as for every
fixed period of time,
say every quarter,
the team will reduce
the error rate by
some percentage relative to
human level performance.
In this case, it looks like
this gap between the current
level of performance and
human level performance is
shrinking by maybe 30
percent every quarter,
which is why you get
this curve that is
exponentially
decaying to what HRP.
By estimating this
rate of progress,
you may project into
the future that hopefully
in future quarters,
you continue to reduce
the error by 30 percent
relative to HRP.
This will give you a
sense of what might be
reasonable for the future rate
of progress on this project.
This gives you a sense of
what may be feasible for
an existing project for which
you already have this type
of history and can try to
extrapolate into the future.
In this video, you saw how
to use human level performance,
the question of whether you
have predictive features and
the history of a project in
order to assess
technical feasibility.
Next, let's dive more deeply into
assessing the value of a project.
We'll do that in the next video.